# Project_on_Credit_Card_Defaults
This project aims to test your mastery of exploratory data analysis and uncover insight from data using univariate and bivariate data analysis
Project: Credit Card Defaults
This project requires that you analyze credit card payments of customers and use their transactional data to study the characteristics of the customers who are most likely to default, eventually building a profile of these customers.
Credit card default has been a field of interest and extensive analysis for more than a decade. There are two types of loans – secured and unsecured. A secured loan is one where some collateral is mandatory, so whenever a default happens, the banking institutions can take control of the underlying assets. This asset can vary from real estate to automobiles. In general, a secured loan is considered to be low risk. Unlike a secured loan, an unsecured loan does not require any underlying collateral. Lines of credit are unsecured by their very nature, so whenever a default on the payments happens, it is the credit card company or the bank that has to take the loss. This concern has prompted banks and companies to invest heavily in the analysis and prediction of credit card defaults.
In this project, you are expected to build a profile of the customers most likely to default using techniques such as univariate and bivariate analysis. With this analysis, we will be able to understand the factors or characteristics of a customer who is likely to default. This profile will act as a criterion for the bank or lending facility to detect potential defaulters and take appropriate actions in a timely manner.
